Welcome to the lecture Smart Process Analytics!
Topic
The lecture Smart Process Analytics (SPA) is on how we can support businesses by analyzing and interpreting data that is permanently generated by running software applications, smart devices, and/or general environmental services.

In particular, the lecture introduces how such an analysis can take place by using advanced concepts from the field of process mining. The topics that are covered by the course are as follows:

data collection and preprocessing
data analysis with process mining
deterministic process mining algorithms
probabilistic process mining algorithms
predictive process analytics
context-aware (=smart) process analytics
The exercise of the SPA course deepens the concepts introduced in the lecture by applying them in an extensive case study that has to be worked on in groups of 4-5 students. In the tutorial, the students are provided with process log data from a real-world business case, alongside with context information provided by sensors and/or online services. The task of the case study is to perform log data preprocessing, and, furthermore, smart (and, if applicable, predictive) process analytics with the concepts and tools introduced in the lecture. The results have to be presented and discussed in a final presentation session.

Language
The lecture will be held entirely in English to open it for non-German speakers. However, in case everyone speaks German, we will change to German.

The lecture and the exercise dates will not alternate regularly. I.e., the lecture will be held from October to December on both the lecture and exercise dates, and in December we will switch to the exercise.

Preconditions
It helps you (but it is not mandatory) if you know basics of business process modeling (ideally, you have already visited BPM). For parts of the case study, you should be able to develop small applications (e.g. In Java or Python).

How to get Credits
The course is worth 6 ECTS, and at the end, you will get one single combined grade. It will consist 50% of a written examination (60 minutes) in presence (offline) on the topics of the lecture and 50% of the results of your case study work (this is because the exercise makes a considerable amount of work!)

Description of the case study

To participate an exam, you have to register for it in KLIPS.

Main exam: 2022-02-25, D028
Registration deadline: 2022-02-24
Unsubscribe deadline: 2022-02-24
Second exam: tba, tba
Registration deadline: tba
Unsubscribe deadline: tba
Please observe the announcements and the calendar for important information and dates.

Links
Software:

Celonis: https://www.celonis.com/academic-signup
Disco: http://fluxicon.com/disco/
ProM: http://www.promtools.org/doku.php
Literature:

van der Aalst, W. M. P.: Process Mining: Data Science in Action